[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We're gonna start
where everybody starts when they learn
something, we're gonna start
with the Hello World, okay?
But we're gonna get progressively more and
more throughout the rest of today,
we're going to get progressively more and
more sophisticated about our Hello World.
Okay, so what I want you to do,
[COUGH] Excuse me.
We're mostly done with the slides by the
way at this point there's a few more on
WebRTC but the slides are pretty
unimportant from here on out.
So switch over to your favorite code
editor and inside of that exercises folder
or wherever you're gonna work
from if you've made a copy of it.
Inside of that folder, you should
see an empty file called 1.js and
I want you to open up that in your editor.
You can see there that I
put in a comment that says
we're finally gonna write some you node.
So every time I go somewhere and I teach
this class or I talk to people about node
and I hear this common thing where
people say yeah, yeah I know about node.
Yeah, yeah I've seen it,
I'm pretty confident with it and
then I ask them have you
ever written any code?
Well no, but I wrote a blog post
about it so I feel pretty confident.
I know JavaScript, so
therefore I know node.
I'm not saying that any of you
are actually in that position but
I would suggest to you that by the end
of today you will have actually written
node code, not just pretended to have
written it, you will actually write it.
So we're going to start out at the very
beginning where all programs should
start with Hello World.
And I think you'll see that this is
a significantly simpler Hello World than
most people are accustomed to.
I want you to write
console.log("Hello World"),
okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: And save that file and
then from your command line,
be in that same directory.
I'm inside of my directory,
let me make this bigger so
it's a little easier to read for you.
I'm inside of my [COUGH] I'm at my
command line inside of that directory
where my 1.js file is and
I'm going to say node 1.js and
I should get a Hello World out.
And I want for you to see the same
thing so jump up and down and
scream at me if you're not
seeing Hello World printed out.
>> Kyle Simpson: Well that's it,
that the end in the workshop
you've written some node code.
So we can all go home because everybody's
now confident with node right?
I'm just kidding.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: All right so
not terribly interesting that we were
able to write a console log statement but
why did I start there?
Well the reason I started there is because
I think there are some misconceptions
about how the node actually works.
And you notice that I don't have
any environment whatsoever.
There's no DOM, there's no page,
there's no doc type,
there's no script tags,
there's no nothing.
I just have a single JavaScript file
with a single line of code in it.
How is it possible that
that single line of code is
capable of printing
something to my screen?
Have you ever stopped to wonder what
must be underneath the covers for
a node to be able to expose to me
the capability to do something like I/O?
And that's where I want to start
with introducing node because
the important thing to understand about
node is it's not just a JavaScript engine.
You can take the V8 engine,
which is what node has done,
you can take the V8 JavaScript engine and
you can compile it and
you can run it on your server.
And you can even feed in some JavaScript
to it and it will duly do that code.
But guess what you
cannot do with V8 alone?
You can't see anything that it does.
Because V8, as a JavaScript engine,
the JavaScript engine itself has
absolutely no concept of what I/O means.
It doesn't even make sense for the
JavaScript engine to know what I/O means
because look at all the different
various places it can run.
It can run inside of a Raspberry Pi,
it can be embedded inside of a lightbulb,
it can run inside of a browser,
it can run on a server, on a phone and
ten million other devices in between.
Every one of those as a different
concept of what I/O even means.
So the JavaScript engine itself
doesn't have any concept of that.
So node, what makes node special or
important,
is that node is providing a hosting
environment for that JavaScript.
Your browser provides a hosting
The Raspberry Pi SDK provides a hosting
environment for that JavaScript.
And what it does is it extends
the JavaScript from its pure native sense,
the kind of sense that we
learned about yesterday,
into an environment that
lets you do stuff with it.
Like write to the screen or open up and
read a file, or make an ajax request,
or whatever,
those environments are what extend stuff.
So if you think about the way JavaScript
works in a browser, there's a whole bunch
of things you do inside of the browser
which you may have taken for
granted as well that's just JavaScript.
And it turns out, well, no,
it's not just JavaScript.
It's actually an extension to JavaScript
provided to you by the host environment.
When you do console.log inside
of your browser, the browser and
the developer tools have provided an I/O
hook that allows for console.log to work.
And the same is true of node.
Node has taken the standard
input output stream, and
it's given you a binding from lower
level C layer into JavaScript.
So that when we say consule.log, we're
actually printing something to the screen.
Let me prove it to you.
I want you to take out
the console.log part and
I want you to instead do
process.stdout.write.
>> Kyle Simpson: Save that and
if I haven't mistyped something,
go back to your screen and
type in node 1.js again.
You should notice something
slightly different,
does anybody see what the difference is?
Theres no ending new line or
carriage return or whatever.
That's because the standard out stream
doesn't have any of the semantics built
into it like console.log is.
Console.log is essentially a write lin,
it takes whatever you write in and
adds a new line onto the end of it.
But we can actually deal directly
with the standard I/O stream,
the standard out I/O stream
by saying stdout.write.
And you probably could guess that we
could also do process.stdin.read and
we could read a character
from the standard in input,
if we were to pipe some
input into our node program.
The way you do with node you
could pipe a character in and
you could read it using
standard out standard in.
There is also a standard error for
the standard output.
So in a very real sense in terms of
mapping to Linux semantics, it's very low
level, it has that sort of politics style
interface exposed through JavaScript APIs.
Console.log is a wrapper on
top of process.stdout.write.
And it takes whatever you console.log and
adds a new line onto the end of it.